Hey, welcome back to scary recap.
Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar
Children is surely a peculiar movie.
Though the film might remind you of 'x-men,' it
also has its unique set of twists and enthralling
plots. Without wasting any more time, let's dive
right into it. Watch out for the spoilers ahead!
The story goes something like this…..
2:55 to 3:46:
Jacob Portman is a very silent
kid who lived with his parents.
The movie features a beach in Florida while
Jacob narrates how nothing he does matters
and how it's so much similar to the footprints
on the sand being washed away by the sea waves.
Jacob is seen working in a department store while
a bunch of teens come in and mess around with him.
He identified one of the girls as his schoolmate
and tried to talk to her. But one of the insolent
boys from the group threw a pack of adult
diapers aiming at the stacked-up diaper packets,
causing everything to fall. This made Jacob
clean up the whole mess done by the teens.
When Jacob was about to pick up the packages, he
was approached by the story lady, saying that he
had a call to answer. This scene alone tells a lot
about Jacob or Jake, who doesn't have friends and
is more of a silent and vulnerable type of person.
3:50 to 8:40:
The store lady named Shelly offered to give Jake
a ride home to his grandpas. As Jake's dad was
busy with work, Jake was pressured to visit his
grandpa. On the ride home, Jake called his grandpa
to see if he was doing fine. Abe, his grandpa,
responded to the call in a somewhat concerned and
frightened way and warned Jake not to visit home.
From the grandpa's behaviors and overall body
language, one could say that Abe was delusional
and was suffering from Alzheimer's or dementia.
But was it the truth? Abe told Jake not to see
him and mentioned something about a key to his
gun cabinet. Jake ignored the call and drove up
to Abe's house. While driving through the foggy
dark neighborhood, both Shelly and Jake saw
a strange man with odd eyes; Jake especially
found it pretty bizarre. Upon Jake reaching Abe's
house, he found out that his grandpa's house could
possibly be robbed since the inside was a mess
and a few doors were broken down from the outside.
Jake rushed to check on his grandpa only to see
him lying on the ground surrounded by spooky
trees. With the last breath he had, Abe muttered
to his grandson to run away from the place.
He added, "go to the island, find Emerson. The
postcard, go to the loop, September 3rd, 1943".
Confused about this statement, Jake asked what it
meant, but his heart stopped beating before Abe
could answer it. Jake then hears a creepy thumping
sound and sees a giant monster with no eyes,
a ferocious set of teeth, and sharp claws.
When the monster was about to catch Jake,
she interrupted them with her gun and shot the
trees where the monster was standing because Jake
was the only one who could see the monster.
8:45 to 15:30:
That incident explained the next scene, which is
Jacob having a conversation with his therapist.
He asks why he keeps on seeing monsters and is
struggling with nightmares and anxiety. Jake
told her about Abe's stories in his childhood,
which might have had something to do with his
nightmares. He also mentioned that, according to
the cops and doctors, his grandpa died of a heart
attack that night, which didn't make sense since
his grandpa's eyes were gone when Jake discovered
him. Jakes's childhood was spent mostly with his
grandpa while his parents were away for work.
Both had a special bond because grandpa shared his
exciting stories with Jake, and when Jake grew up
constantly hearing these stories, he actually
believed it. Not only did grandpa tell him the
strange tales, he even showed him a few precious
pictures relating to the stories. In Abe's story,
he lived in a special children's house with the
headmistress as Miss Peregrine who could turn into
a bird. Among the special children, there were
Bronwyn and Victor, who were as strong as ten men.
Hugh was a boy with bees living inside him, while
Emma was a girl who was lighter than the air.
Abe was a native of Poland. Jake was called
"tygrysku" by his grandfather, which meant "little
tiger" in Polish. Jake got made fun of a lot as a
kid when he explained his grandpa's tales to his
classmates, which was why he had no friends.
15:35 to 36:00:
On Jake's birthday after his grandpa's death,
he received a present that Abe meant to give
him. It was a book with a postcard inside of
it. The back of the postcard had something
written on it, and Jake assumed that the
sentence was written by Miss Peregrine,
the headmistress of the special children's house
Abe used to stay at. The postcard concerned
Jake a lot. During his therapy the next day, dr
Golan suggested that Jake visit Miss Peregrine,
who could still be alive, and confront his fears
by visiting Wales, where the children's home was.
Jake and his dad set off on a journey to Wales,
and somehow Jake stumbles upon this abandoned,
shattered mansion which the natives
described as the 'special children's home.'
This was surprising because this wasn't what
Jake expected to see. Jake reached the hotel
where he and his dad were staying. He picked up
a conversation with an old guy in a wheelchair
who was yet to be introduced. The old guy filled
in the information that everyone at the children's
home had passed away due to a German bomb attack.
The next day, Jake crashes at the abandoned
mansion and explores the whole abode. As Jake
covered most of the filthy ancient mansion, he saw
a girl standing in the corridor. To his surprise,
she called him "Abe," but before she could talk,
Jake fled the place. And during his escape, he
encountered more children. After stumbling upon
a rock, Jake was carried by Bronwyn to a cave
where the other children were waiting. When
Jake opened his eyes, he saw the children who his
grandpa described. Still, it was hard to believe
that they were standing right in front of his eyes
when he knew that they all died in a bomb attack.
Through a narrow path of the cave, Jake escaped
and ran to the hotel where his dad was staying.
The manager of the hotel couldn't recognize Jake's
face and told him to get out. At the same time,
the hotel customers started suspecting Jake of
being an American spy who landed here for no good.
Just when Jake was about to get hit, Millard,
the special kid with invisible powers,
started throwing the beer glasses, while Olive,
who had the quirks to set a place on fire,
lit the hotel up and fled the area
with Jake. The children took Jake
back to the children's home, where they were
welcomed by Miss Peregrine smoking her pipe.
Miss Peregrine introduced the children to Jake,
while Jake observed all the peculiar powers of
the children. Miss Peregrine also explained why
other people saw peculiar children as a threat,
and the mansion was a blessing to protect them.
37:00 to 1:01:35:
Most importantly, she mentioned how
she had the power to control time,
so the 'loop' could be relived every day. Jake
also meets Enoch, who could bring toys to life by
placing a heart inside. During dinner, Enoch was
the one who caused a fight with Emma because of
his suspicious and rude behavior. Miss Peregrine
quickly takes the children outside when the bomb
attack happens to rewind time. After this, Jake
finds his way to the hotel in the present, where
his dad was searching for him. Jake finds some
bad news relating to the loop at the hotel and
hurries to miss peregrine to inform her the next
day. Though Miss Peregrine was furious about Jake
telling her the news, this was necessary. Jake
is then made to visit a dead victor while Enoch
played a little trick on Jake and terrified him.
1:02:00 to 1:08:00
After a while, when the children
and Miss Peregrine went for a walk,
Emma dragged Jake to the middle of the sea
and swam below it to reach a sunken ship.
Emma tells Jake about the 'bad peculiars' who
Barron led. Emma also feeds Jake with the ultimate
truth that he was also gifted and peculiar.
1:08:00 to 1:14:00
When disagreed with this, Emma takes Jake to the
place where Miss Peregrine would kill a hollow
every day, according to the loop time. Hollow is
the name given for the monsters who killed Abe.
In reality, Jake was the only one who could see a
hollow, and that was one of the most significant
powers ever. Miss Peregrine explains to Jake about
the bad organization that hunts for peculiar kids.
They are hideously Crazy scientists who murdered
a 'Ymbryne,' which are female peculiars capable
of turning into birds. The torturing of a Ymbryne
was however a massive failed experiment to capture
their potential to gain immortality. Mr. Barron
could shift his appearance, and what gave them
more power to strengthen their abilities were
the peculiar eyeballs. When the hollows ate the
eyeballs, they could visibly recover their human
form, even though they would get milky white eyes.
1:15:00 to 1:20:19:
In January 2016, an injured Ymbryne,
Miss Avocet, was discovered by Emma. She said that
Barron tortured her at Blackpool, England, killed
her children, and tried to recreate a terrible
experiment with more Ymbrynes. Jake reminded Miss
Peregrine that a 'hollow' might be on the loose
since he and his dad discovered a flock of sheeps
dead. This news petrified Miss Peregrine, and she
prepared to go with her children and Miss Avocet.
Meanwhile, Jake came back in 2016, but when
he finds an older man dead by the Hollow,
he goes back to the cave portal to warn them that
the Hollow is near. On his way to the cave, Jake
was followed by another visitor on the island,
an environmentalist who was actually Mr. Barron,
the leader of the hollows, the crazy scientist.
1:21:14 to 1:31:00
Barron had been trying to remove Ms. Peregrine's
time loop from his grandpa, but the hungry Hollow
murdered Abe before he could. He then disguised
as Dr. Golan with his human shifting abilities,
asking Jake to visit the island so that Barron
could access the loop. Barron then threatened and
forced Miss Peregrine to Blackpool, leaving Jake,
the other kids, and Miss Avocet as the substitute
for the Hollow on the loose to prey on. Malthus,
the Hollow on the loose, was coming to execute
Miss Avocet, but Jake and the children tried to
escape. While Malthus was close to attacking the
children, he got dropped over a bomb because it
was exactly the time when the German fleet came
and destroyed the house by dropping bombs. Now
with Miss Peregrine gone, the time loop was closed
forever, leaving it locked in 1943.
1:36:00 to 1:53:00
Jake and the children traveled to Blackpool on
the sunken ship and entered its January 2016
loop. It was an attempt to fight against Barron
and the Hollow allies and free Miss Peregrine
and the other captive Ymbrynes. After taking care
of most of the hollows with the children's help,
Jake goes to find Barron to finish him
off. Barron then disguises himself as
Jake in the hope that Emma and Enoch will become
confused. But Jake could notice the hollows. To
prove that he was the real Jake, he points
Emma and Enoch to the last remaining Hollow,
who attempted to kill them from the back. Since
Barron turned himself into a fake Jake, he could
not spot the Hollow from the back, and right at
this moment, the Hollow killed Barron and Jake
used this opportunity to slay the last Hollow.
1:54:00
Before closing the time loop, Jake said
goodbye to Emma and the children as they left
and returned to the ship in 1943. Jake, on the
other hand, stayed in 2016 and visited Florida.
He went straight to his grandfather Abe, who
was alive since fate changed. Jake explained the
tales in Wales and the adventures he experienced
to Abe. Abe then offers Jake an international
time map that allowed him to go back to 1943 to
meet his pals and, most importantly, Emma. After
going back to his dear friends and Emma, they
tell each other their sentiments and kiss. The
movie ends with the youngsters and Miss Peregrine
having their happy time loop on their own ship.
And like that we have reached the end
of this video, we hope you liked it.
Do subscribe and smash the like button
for more updates. We will see you soon.